# Object Identifiers in Bungeni #

# Introduction #

  * Content in Bungeni is created within plone
  * This content is used in other external systems to Bungeni
  * Usage of content identifiers (object identifiers) is detailed on this page

# Available Object Identifiers #

  * Plone UID - the unique object identifier generated by plone for every object created within plone.  This identifier, once created is assigned to the object for the whole lifetime of the object. NOT CLEAR ABOUT UID IN THE CASE OF CMFEDITIONS VERSIONS
  * URI - this is a human readable unique identifier based on AkomaNtoso URI syntax [URI naming convention](http://www.akomantoso.org/08-naming-convention).  The behavior is similar to that of a UID - it must be once to the object at the point of creation (or publishing) - and it must never change for the lifetime of the object.


# Usage #

## An MP in different contexts ##

### Case (a) ###

An MP "Mr.X" can appear in different contexts within parliament:
  * As a person
    * The MP Mr.X is identified as a "person" when he is registered as a user on Bungeni
  * As a member of parliament
    * The MP Mr.X is identified as a "member of parliament" when he is assigned the role "member of parliament"
  * As a minister
    * **TO BE DONE ????**
  * As a member of a political party
    * **TO BE DONE ????**

Each of the above contexts needs to be identifiable.

### Case (b) ###

An MP can also appear in different contexts in different periods of time, using a simple example:

  * MP Mr.X served in the parliament of 1999 in the "Bicycle" political party
  * Subsequently, in the parliament 2003 he was not elected to parliament
  * MP Mr.X was returned to parliament in 2007 on the "Motorcycle" political party ticket

Each of the above contexts needs to be identified and differentiated. Probably best identified by a URI syntax ??


## Example of the Hansard ##

### Importing questions into the Hansard ###

  * Questions are imported into the Hansard from Plone
  * The imported Question includes information about:
    * the MP who made the speech
    * the Entity that the speech was addressed to
    * the content of the speech
  * Answers are typed in verbatim into the hansard, but the details of the MP imported from the Registry / Bungeni...
  * The MP who made the Speech can be identified by:
    * the URI of the MP
    * the Plone UID of the MP

### Points to Consider ###

We need to identify the "context" of the MP in the speech. If we use the Plone UID of the MP (which are equivalent in uniqueness..). We would get something like this in the AkomaNtoso output:

```
 <speech by="plone uid of mp"  >
  speech of mp
 </speech>
```

or if we used the URI of the MP:

```
 <speech by="ke/person/joe_kagi_1956-01-01/mp" >
  speech of mp
 </speech>
```
_joe kagi = name of the mp, 1956-01-01 = date of birth of the mp, /mp = identifies the person as an mp_

However, the plone uid identifies the MP on the portal.  It does not seem to address the problem Case (a) (stated above) (**COMMENTS SOUGHT**)- how do we know from the output ANxml that we are talking of the MP in 2003 or 2007 ?

One way out would be to use a more complete URI as the identifier for the MP

```
 <speech by="ke/person/joe_kagi_1956-01-01/mp/2003">
  speech of mp
 </speech>
```

This would clearly identify joe kagi as an mp in 2003. (**COMMENTS SOUGHT**)
In the metadata header of the ANxml for the hansard, the MP would be referred to with a permanent URI as this:

```
<person ref="ke/person/joe_kagi_1956-01-01/" id="ke/person/joe_kagi_1956-01-01/mp/2003" as="MP" />
```

This would seem to address the issue of identifying the person in two different roles, for instance, if the MP Joe Kagi was referred to in the same hansard as a minister, and subsequently as an MP, in the ANxml he would appear something like:

```

metadata header:

<person ref="ke/person/joe_kagi_1956-01-01/" id="ke/person/joe_kagi_1956-01-01/mp/2003" />
<person ref="ke/person/joe_kagi_1956-01-01/" id="ke/person/joe_kagi_1956-01-01/mp/2003/minister/id-of-minister"  />

hansard body:

<speech by="ke/person/joe_kagi_1956-01-01/mp/2003">
joe kagi making speech as MP
</speech>
.....

<speech by="ke/person/joe_kagi_1956-01-01/mp/2003/minister/id-of-minister">
joe kagi making speech as Minister
</speech>


```


#### Issue of case (b) political parties ####

Political parties are not attributed in the hansard.  Search queries
including political parties as filters are best handled by
pre-filtering using the MP's identifer + party membership identifier
to determine duration of membership in the political party (from and
to dates...) and then querying on that date range for the MP's
speeches.

### Bungeni/Plone URI implementation ###

(**THIS SECTION NEEDS A LOT OF COMMENTS**)

Essentially we have an MP as an object in plone with a single Unique UID.
We need to identify the MP with different identifiers, when we consider,
the MP as: a person, a member of parliament, or as a minister... (along with something like "Date of Tenure").

So for a Plone Object for MP. Mr Joe Kagi you would have:

|Parent Plone UID|Base URI|
|:---------------|:-------|
|22828448484848  |ke/joe\_kagi\_1956-01-01/|

Within that object there could be multiple URIs depending on the "state" of the Plone object.

|state|additional URI|
|:----|:-------------|
|if the object had an MP role and "date of tenure" as 2003|ke/joe\_kagi\_1956-01-01/mp/2003|
|if the object had an MP role and "date of tenure" as 2007|ke/joe\_kagi\_1956-01-01/mp/2003|
|if the object was also a minister of roads in 2003|ke/joe\_kagi\_1956-01-01/mp/2003/minister/minister-identifier|









