#labels BungeniDspace


== Setup PostGresQL ==

 * Add a database called 'dspace' to Postgres
 * Create a login role called 'dspace' with password 'dspace'
 * Make the 'dspace' role the owner of the 'dspace' db.

== Dspace installation procedure ==

 * Install the JDK on your system : `sudo apt-get install sun-java6-jdk`
 * Download Apache Maven : `wget http://www.apache.org/dist/maven/binaries/apache-maven-2.0.9-bin.tar.gz`
 * Download Apache Ant : `wget http://www.apache.org/dist/ant/binaries/apache-ant-1.7.1-bin.tar.gz`
 * Downloa [http://sourceforge.net/project/dspace DSpace] : `wget http://voxel.dl.sourceforge.net/sourceforge/dspace/dspace-1.5.0-release.tar.gz` 
 * Set the JAVA_HOME to the jdk directory : `export JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-5-sun`
 * Extract and install maven to ~/apps/maven 
 * Extract and install ant to ~/apps/ant
 * Extract DSpace to ~/builds/dspace
 * Edit dspace.cfg :
	# Edit ~/builds/dspace/dspace/config/dspace.cfg, in particular you'll need to set these properties:
	dspace.dir -- must be set to the [dspace] (installation) directory.
	dspace.url -- complete URL of this server's DSpace home page.
	dspace.hostname -- fully-qualified domain name of web server.
	dspace.name -- "Proper" name of your server, e.g. "My Digital Library".
	db.password -- the database password you entered in the previous step.
	mail.server -- fully-qualified domain name of your outgoing mail server.
	mail.from.address -- the "From:" address to put on email sent by DSpace.
	feedback.recipient -- mailbox for feedback mail.
	mail.admin -- mailbox for DSpace site administrator.
	alert.recipient -- mailbox for server errors/alerts (not essential but very useful!)
	registration.notify -- mailbox for emails when new users register (optional) 
 * Create the directory for the DSpace installation (i.e. ~/apps/dspacesrv ) : `mkdir ~/apps/dspacesrv`
 * Now run maven : `cd ~/builds/dspace/dspace; ~/apps/maven/bin/mvn package`
 	* this will take a while to complete
 * Now run run ant after maven has completed: `cd ~/builds/dspace/dspace/target/dspace-1.5.0.dir/ ; ant fresh_install`
 * Once ant runs successfully dspace has been installed under ~/apps/dspacesrv


== Dspace Theme == 
The name for the bungeni theme is "bungeni"

Details on how to install a theme into dspace [http://wiki.dspace.org/index.php/Install_a_theme_%28Manakin%29 see this link]

== DSpace KOHA cross search == 

Retrieving the cross search interface from svn

The web archive(.war) file and other files are available from the svn repository situated at
http://bungeni-portal.googlecode.com/svn/dspace.bungeni/trunk

A readme file is included in the web archive giving details of how to make the cross search app communicate with your dspace installation.

The readme file also contains information on how to configure the cross search application using the crsssearch.cfg file
