#summary This documents the requirements of the Parliamentary Calendar for Bungeni within Plone.

= Introduction =

The parliamentary calendar is one of the main metadata registries of the Bungeni PIS.  The calendar provides a map of all parliamentary activities for the forthcoming year.

= Similar Examples = 

A calendar of public committee meetings, etc from the Parliament.UK website:

  http://www.parliament.uk/what_s_on/hoc_news3.cfm

The calendar must also provide a summarized, typical calendar style view.
Note that the calendar provided in the example is a subset of the main parliamentary calendar which records all activities.

Various calendar views are possible: an overview showing major dates, detail views showing the business of the day, public/parliamentary/private views.
There may be many different calendars, relevant to different groups; e.g. committees may use calendars to coordinate their activities, and there may be a public calendar with dates of parliamentary tours.

= Plone products =

There are various Plone calendar products available.
The chosen one is the approach taken by Plone4Artists. Instead of depending on specific content types, it augments existing Plone content types with calendar/event functionality.

= Calendar Storage - ZODB and RDBMS =

We have a need to capture the calendar data in a relational table - so that the information can be cross-referenced / joined with other registry metadata tables.
[Please expand on this need. Who will be doing the joining, to what purpose.]
All changes to Bungeni objects are written to an audit log, which is used to update the registry, keeping it in sync with the information in Plone. 
