#summary Guidelines on setting up a live bungeni system
#sidebar TableOfContents

= Introduction =

A live system is one which will be used by end users on an ongoing basis. There are many things to be aware of when setting up such a system. This page aims to document some of these steps

= Version Control =

Bungeni is setup by checking out code from the trunk branch of the bungeni svn repository.
For live installations it is desirable to not to run code from trunk - but to run the system on specific tagged versions of the source code. This ensures stability and predictability - and also allows rolling back or forward to downgrade or upgrade a change.

Tagged release of bungeni are listed in [https://spreadsheets.google.com/pub?key=0ApKt_FmivEH8dF9ITXRqMFNKRDNQZlJBbGtZcnVwRUE&hl=en&gid=0 this RELEASES document].

Running a svn up to the tagged revision and running a buildout effectively reverts the source code to the specific revision. If there was a schema change between revisions - please see the issue below.

= Schema Changes = 

Managing schema changes has been documented here : Managing_Bungeni_Schema_Upgrades

= Backups =

 * Any local patches to source code need to be backed up and documented, preferably via the issue tracker.
 * The live database needs to be incrementally backed up at regular intervals (e.g. hourly)

= Installation Administration = 

== Minimal metadata == 

To commence data-entry - you need to start with a clean system without any parliaments or users. However, the system requires some minimal metadata to get started with -- these include : 
  * country codes
  * language codes
  * committee types
  * parliamentary office types
  * sitting types
  * address types 
  * user role types 
  * venues / meeting rooms within parliament

The minimal metadata does not have a user interface for adding it to the system - this is loaded via a sql script : 
{{{
./bin/reset-db
./bin/psql bungeni < ./testdatadmp/dumpmin-undesa.txt
}}}
The script is called dumpmin-undesa.txt and can be found in the `testdatadmp` folder of the bungeni buildout installation.


== Users == 


== Reversing incorrect data entry == 