#summary How to deploy a bungeni buildout with capistrano and webistrano
#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured


<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Introduction =

[http://www.capify.org Capistrano] is a configuration management tool that makes it possible to automate deployments and builds over the web. 
[http://labs.peritor.com/webistrano Webistrano] is a web UI version of Capistrano - and packages Capistrano in a more user friendly web based interface.

= Installing Capistrano / Webistrano =

Both capistrano and webistrano require ruby, rubygems and rake to be installed.

== Installing Ruby, RubyGems, Rake & Capistrano == 

{{{
sudo apt-get install ruby-full build-essential rubygems ssh
sudo -s
gem install rake -y
gem install capistrano -y
}}}

Add the following lines to your ~/.bashrc file  to add rubygems to your system path:
{{{
export PATH=$PATH:/var/lib/gems/1.8/bin
}}}

and then run the following command :
{{{
source ~/.bashrc
}}}

For installing a newer version of rubygems see below.
(Otherwise skip to "Deploying a Bungeni Buildout with Capistrano")

== Installing Ruby Gems (Latest Build) == 

{{{
wget http://rubyforge.org/frs/download.php/45905/rubygems-1.3.1.tgz
tar xzvf rubygems-1.3.1.tgz
cd rubygems-1.3.1
## NOTE :
## running without sudo will install the ruby gems within the user's
## home folder e.g. /home/user/.gem/ruby/1.x/bin
sudo ruby setup.rb
sudo ln -s /usr/bin/gem1.8 /usr/bin/gem
sudo gem update --system
}}}

=== Error while updating rubygems == 

_Sometimes_ _while_ _running_ `sudo gem update --system` _the_ _following_ _error_ _can_ _occur_ :
{{{
Bulk updating Gem source index for: http://gems.rubyforge.org
Attempting remote update of rubygems-update
ERROR:  While executing gem ... (Gem::GemNotFoundException)
    Could not find rubygems-update (> 0) in any repository
}}}

_To_ _resolve_ _this_ _we_ _need_ _to_ _clear_ _the_ _source_ _cache_ _of_ _rubygems_ _:_

run `gem env` and not the output :e.g.
{{{
$gem env

RubyGems Environment:
  - VERSION: 0.9.4 (0.9.4)
  - INSTALLATION DIRECTORY: /var/lib/gems/1.8
  - GEM PATH:
     - /var/lib/gems/1.8
  - REMOTE SOURCES:
     - http://gems.rubyforge.org
}}}

_clear_ _the_ _source_ _cache_ _file_ _on_ _the_ _GEM_ _installation_ _PATH_ _:_
{{{
$ sudo rm /var/lib/gems/1.8/source_cache
}}}
_finally_ _clear_ _the_ _local_ _gem_ _folder_ :
{{{
rm -rf ~/.gem/
}}}

_

== Installing rake == 

{{{
sudo gem install rake -y
## if you had installed ruby gems into the user folder. i.e installed it without
## using sudo. you will have to invoke gem from the user bin folder .. 
## i.e : /home/user/.gem./ruby/1.8/bin/gem install rake -y
}}}

== Installing capistrano == 

{{{
sudo gem install capistrano -y
## if you had installed ruby gems into the user folder. i.e installed it without
## using sudo. you will have to invoke gem from the user bin folder .. 
## i.e : /home/user/.gem./ruby/1.8/bin/gem install capistrano -y
}}}


== Installing webistrano ==

Note : it is not neccessary to install capistrano to use webistrano as webistrano packages its own installation of capistrano.

[http://labs.peritor.com/webistrano/wiki/Install Installing Webistrano]

= Deploying the Bungeni Buildout with Capistrano =

== Option 1: Setup with capistrano trunk ==

Create a folder within your home directory, lets call it 'cap-setup'.
In a terminal window change directory to that folder and get the capistrano recipe from svn.

{{{
cd cap-setup
svn export http://bungeni-portal.googlecode.com/svn/capistrano/bungeni_setup/trunk 
}}}

It will take a few minutes to download the recipe from svn.
Now open the `trunk/config/bungeni_presetup.rb` file in a text-editor, and edit lines 21-22 to suit your local installation environment :
(user_build_root and user_install_root) are paths on the setup computer - the required bungeni components will get installed within 'user_install_root'

{{{
### only the following 2 parameters need to be set by the user to customize
### this installation script for different computers
set :user_build_root, "/home/bungeni/cap_builds"
set :user_install_root, "/home/bungeni/cap_installs"

#### download URLs for components #####
### can be set to a http / ftp url or an absolute path to the file on the computer
set :python_download_url, "/home/bungeni/cache/Python-2.5.4.tgz" # http://www.python.org/ftp/python/2.5.4/Python-2.5.4.tgz
set :python_imaging_download_url, "http://effbot.org/media/downloads/Imaging-1.1.7b1.tar.gz"
set :svn_download_url,  "/home/bungeni/cache/subversion-1.5.4.tar.gz" #"http://subversion.tigris.org/downloads/subversion-1.5.4.tar.gz"
}}}

Now run the following command :

{{{
cd trunk
cap bungeni_presetup:build_all

User name to run as: [bungeni] : "the user name you currently use on your machine"

}}}

This will setup the following :
 * Install required OS libraries
 * Build a user python with required binding for :
    * ssl
    * imaging 
    * subversion



== Option 2: Installing using the online package index ==

Bungeni can be installed and deployed over the internet -- or locally if you have a local python package index cache.

Build & deploy bungeni using the online package index using the following command :

{{{
cap bungeni_install:setup
}}}


You will be prompted for the bungeni-portal svn repository user-name / password - installation will proceed upon entering that.

This command invokes the recipe commands in the correct order by first running deploy:setup, then deploy:update and then invokes the recipes in the bungeni_install namespace.

== Option 3: Installing using the local package index ==

Set the capistrano parameters for the cached buildout by editing `config/bungeniconfiglocalcache.rb` :

{{{
set :local_buildout_index, "http://192.168.0.14:6543/bungeni"
set :pg_download_url, "http://192.168.0.14:6543/cache/postgresql/postgresql-8.3.7.tar.gz"
set :xapian_download_url, "http://192.168.0.14:6543/cache/xapian-core/xapian-core-11831.tgz"
set :xapian_binding_download_url, "http://192.168.0.14:6543/cache/xapian-bindings/xapian-bindings-11831.tgz"
set :exist_download_url, "http://192.168.0.14:6543/cache/eXist/eXist-setup-1.2.0-rev7233.jar"
}}}

Build & deploy bungeni using the cached package index using the following command :

{{{
cap bungeni_install:setup_from_cache
}}}

You will be prompted for the bungeni-portal svn repository user-name / password - installation will proceed upon entering that.

This recipe sets up a custom buildout configuration and installs bungeni using the local cache index.


= Starting and stopping bungeni =

To start / stop / restart postgresql :
{{{
cap bungeni_services:start_pg
cap bungeni_services:stop_pg
cap bungeni_services:restart_pg
}}}


To start / stop / restart bungeni :
{{{
cap bungeni_services:start_bungeni
cap bungeni_services:stop_bungeni
cap bungeni_services:restart_bungeni
}}}

To use the supervisor service controller to start and stop bungeni, browse to http://app-host:8888/ to access the browser based service manager.

== Updating a running bungeni installation == 

<<<<TODO >>>>


= Deploying the Bungeni Buildout with Webistrano =

For webistrano -- we import the deploy.rb from the previous step into webistrano.

Webistrano does not support #{parameter} evaluation like Capistrano. So add the configurations into a new webistrano project with explict paths.

Copy and paste the individual capistrano tasks as webistrano recipes.

An additional configuration parameter is required to point webistrano to the correct path to rake, so add the follow custom configuration variable :
{{{
set :rake, "/home/user/.gem/ruby/1.8/bin/rake"
}}}

Finally add the recipes to a webistrano stage. Within the stage you can now run individual tasks ("Recipes").