#summary Localization of Bungeni Forms
#labels Phase-Implementation

<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

= Localization of Bungeni Forms = 

== Requirements == 

=== General Assumptions ===

We accept the following assumptions to set the scope and limits of what to allow as form localizations in Bungeni:

*`[A0]`* All statements here are _Field_-oriented i.e. everything stated is within the context of a specific Field (within a UI Descriptor).

*`[A1]`* Every localizable mode has a default localization i.e. for each localizable mode there is a bungeni defined default set of roles for whom the field is to be shown. OTOH, every non-localizable mode may NOT be associated to a set of roles for visibility (the related security declarations in domain.zcml must prevail). 

 * Besides the obvious scenario (of declaring a mode localizable and specifying the roles the Field is to be shown for) this also enables the possibility to declare a mode to be localizable while by default keeping it not visible to any role (an example of this case is the `ParliamentaryItemDescriptor.full_name` field, that is declared but made non-visible for all roles, leaving it up to a parliament to enable it if so desired).

*`[A2]`* Some fields are *required* for proper functioning of Bungeni (e.g. by the data schema, or are assumed to be there by a workflow definition) and thus may not be disabled/hidden i.e. may not be localized--at least in certain key views, such as a form in `add` and `edit` modes, to ensure that the schema/business constraints are always respected. As a consequence, a mode may be declared not localizable in Bungeni and any attempt to localize it for a specific deployment must result in an immediate error.

*`[A3]`* The display order of fields in all forms is *always* localizable; furthermore the relative order of displayed fields will always be the same for all modes (and for all roles).

*`[A4]`* If a mode is declared to be localizable, then it is localizable for all roles.

*`[A5]`* Visibility of a field in any mode, localizable or not, is always *subject to* the privileges that the user has on the domain object's attribute that the field corresponds to. (This is the general case, but is not necessarily *always* the case; what should the behaviour be in the few such cases?).

=== Extension of Bungeni UI Descriptor API ===

To support localization, some changes to how forms are processed internally within Bungeni are needed. These consist mostly in adding the current user's role as an additional modifier of what fields are shown or hidden per form mode.

We retain the Field-oriented descriptor mechanism that is currently in place, and evolve it to cover the additional needs, that thus consist of:

*`[B1]`* To be able to declare which modes a field is allowed to be localized in.  
<br/>Note: this feature is in addition to and independent of the already implemented ability of declaring which modes a field is to be displayed in.

*`[B2]`* For each localizable mode, to be able to declare which roles the field is to be displayed for.

To process these declarations corresponding changes to bungeni/alchemist code are required.


=== Localization by a Parliament's Site Admin ===

To support localization of a deployment's form views the following is required:

*`[C1]`* To be able to state, per localizable UI descriptor, the display order (and inclusion) of all fields (in their entirety and independently of all modes/roles for which they may be enabled).

 * It is an error to omit any field that is not localizable.
 * It is a warning to omit any field that is localizable (to categorically disable a field it should still be included but declared to be hidden from all roles).
 * No default value for the list of fields is to be assumed here--the list must be stated explicitly. There is, however, a default value to be assumed for all visibility modifiers for each of the listed fields--that default being whatever is defined in stock Bungeni for this field.

*`[C2]`* To be able to adjust, per localizable mode, the roles for which the field is to be displayed for.

 * It is an error to attempt to localize a non-localizable *decriptor*.
 * Contrarily, it is perfectly OK for a localization to to omit entirely a localizable *descriptor* (implying that the omitted descriptor is simply not being localized in this deployment).
 * It is an error to attempt to adjust a *field*'s the roles for a non-localizable mode.
 * For a *field* in a localizable mode, if the bungeni-specified list of roles is to be adjusted then the list of roles must be entirely restated i.e. the entire desired list of a mode's roles must be explicitly specified, either via explicit inclusion (show) or as the complement of explicit exclusion (hide).


=== Other considerations ===

*`[X1]`* To facilitate the site admin's task of localizing a bungeni deployment, the Bungeni system should automatically generate a default configuration file, reflecting precisely all the display directives for all form fields (per mode per role).

*`[X2]`* The source format selected for the configuration file should support easy commenting out of entire declarations or parts thereof.

*`[X3]`* How a localization is picked by the system should be convenient--such that switching from one localization to another involves no more than simply modifying a file-system path parameter in the application's deploy.ini file and restarting the application.


== Design ==

=== Descriptor API ===

==== `bungeni.alchemist.model.ModelDescriptor.localizablebool = False` ====

As not every descriptor corresponds to a actual set of form views, content-type descriptors must explicitly be declared as localizable. 

Example is the base descriptors that are used for programmatic convenience to define other real descriptors e.g. `ParliamentaryItemDescriptor` does not directly correspond to a set of views.

To address this, we add a `localizable:bool = False` class attribute to `ModelDescriptor`, like so:

{{{
    class ModelDescriptor(object):
        localizable = False
}}}

Note that localization of individual Fields is completely independent of localizability of a descriptor i.e. a field may be declared localizable even when the containing descriptor is declared not localizable. 

==== `bungeni.alchemist.model.Field` ====

The meaning of the current `modes` class attribute stays unchanged.

===== `bungeni.alchemist.model.Field._roles` =====

We first need to state precisely what roles may be targetted by localization--by adding 
a following class attribute:

{{{
    _roles = (
        "bungeni.Admin", # parliament, has all privileges
        "bungeni.Clerk", "bungeni.Speaker", "bungeni.MP", # parliament 
        "bungeni.Minister", # ministry 
        #"bungeni.Owner", # instance
        #"bungeni.Translator", # parliament
        #"bungeni.Everybody", # all authenticated users, all above roles
        "bungeni.Anybody" # unauthenticated user, anonymous
    )
}}}

This set of (uncommented) roles is thus an *explicit subset* of all `bungeni.*` roles defined within the system (that typically are defined in `models/roles.zcml`). 

This list of roles is also what is to be used as the fallback default value whenever a list of roles is expected and not specified.

===== `bungeni.alchemist.model.Field.localizable:sequence = []` =====

We then need to conveniently state which modes the field is localizable in, and what is the default list of roles it is to be shown to -- we add a `localizable` parameter on the Field class, with the allowed value being:
{{{
        [ either(show(modes, roles), hide(modes, roles)) ]
}}}
i.e. a list of either `show(modes, roles)` or `hide(modes, roles)` declarations, where the modes/roles keyword parameters are each a list of parameters, with the following constraints:

 * the field is localizable for a given mode if (and only if) that mode appears in one (and only one) of these show/hide declarations--this also implies that a mode may appear only once in a field's show/hide directives.

 * not specifying either of the `modes` or `roles` parameter (or specifying None as their value) is equivalent to respectively specifying all modes or roles. A corollary of this is that an additional `show()` declaration (with the modes parameter omitted) *must* generate an error (as this means at least one mode is included more than once in the show/hide declarations). 

 * directives `show` or `hide` are _roles-complement_ of each other i.e. the following are two equivalent statements of the same rule (for each case, convenience and improved clarity would inform which to prefer):
{{{
    hide(roles="bungeni.Anybody")
    show(roles="""bungeni.Admin bungeni.Clerk bungeni.Speaker bungeni.MP 
        bungeni.Minister bungeni.Anybody""")
}}}

 * the implementation of `show` and `hide` consists of a couple of factory utilities  supporting the bungeni descriptor API, each having the 2 keyword parameters, `modes` and `roles`.

 * the default value (i.e. an empty list) of the `localizable` Field attribute implies that the field is not localizable in any mode and to be localizable a Field instance must explictly reset the value of its `localizable` parameter.

 * the Field instance may internally transform this list of show/hide directives, for more optimized processing.

Example:

{{{
    class ParliamentaryItemDescriptor(ModelDescriptor):
        localizable = False
        fields = [
            ...,
            Field(name="owner_id",
                modes="view edit add listing",
                localizable=[
                    hide("view listing", "bungeni.Anybody"),
                ],
                property=schema.Choice(title=_(u"Moved by"),
                    description=_(u"Select the user who moved the document"),
                    source=vocabulary.MemberOfParliamentDelegationSource("owner_id"),
                ),
                ...
            ),
            ...
        ]

    class QuestionDescriptor(ParliamentaryItemDescriptor):
        localizable = True
        ...
        fields = [
            ...,
            Field(name="ministry_submit_date",
                modes="view edit",
                localizable=[ show("view") ],
                ...
            ),
        ]
}}}
The above code declares the following:

 * `QuestionDescriptor` as localizable.
 * The `moved by` question field to be localizable in the `view` and `listing` modes (and only those modes), while the `ministry_submit_date` question field to be localizable in the `view` and `edit` modes (and only those modes).
 * For `moved_by`: for the 2 modes, it sets the default lists of roles that this field is to be shown for to be all roles except for `bungeni.Anybody`.
 * For `ministry_submit_date`: it states that in `view` mode the field is to be shown for all roles.


Note the following is an equivalent way to express the `moved_by` field `localizable` init parameter as the one in the example above:
{{{
                localizable=[
                    hide(modes="view", roles="bungeni.Anybody"),
                    hide(modes="listing", roles="bungeni.Anybody"),
                ],
}}}
but the following would be an error (because `listing` mode appears more than once in the fields's localizable directives):
{{{
                localizable=[
                    show(modes="listing", roles="bungeni.MP bungeni.Clerk"),
                    hide(modes="view listing", roles="bungeni.Anybody"),
                ],
}}}


In the below example, specifiying `None` as the parameter for `show()` will enable it for all roles -- and not specifying the mode parameter to `show()` enables it for the list of modes applicable to the field (in the below case 'view' and 'edit') :
{{{
           ...,
            Field(name="ministry_submit_date",
                modes="view edit",
                localizable=[ show() ],
                ...
}}}

=== Localization API ===

If a descriptor is to be included in a localization, then all the fields are to be listed (as stated in requirements)--making the configuration of the *order* of appearance immediate, straighforward, and maintainable even by someone not especially familiar with bungeni.

To continue with the example above, let's look at what a localized Question descriptor would look like (here we assume an XML syntax, but this could just as easily be JSON or other data format). 

The declaration structure follows the same lines as descriptor's Field.localizable. Let's assume that the only localizable (and localized) Fields in this descriptor are the `moved_by` in `view` and `listing` modes and `ministry_submit_date` in `view` mode:
{{{
    <descriptor name="Question">
        <field name="parliament_id" />
        <field name="short_name" />
        <field name="registry_number" />
        <field name="owner_id">
            <show modes="view" roles="bungeni.Clerk bungeni.Speaker" />
            <hide modes="listing" roles="bungeni.Anybody" />
        </field>
        <field name="language" />
        <field name="body_text" />
        <field name="submission_date" />
        <field name="status" />
        <field name="status_date" />
        <field name="note" />
        <field name="receive_notification" />
        <field name="question_number" />
        <field name="ministry_id" />
        <field name="approval_date" />
        <field name="ministry_submit_date">
            <hide modes="view" />
        </field>
        <field name="question_type" />
        <field name="response_type" />
        <field name="response_text" />
    </descriptor>
}}}
The above localization code is:

 * setting the field order.
 * stating that the `moved_by` field (+!`owner_id`--the human field name should be used not the underlying attribute name) is being localized to be display for Clerk/Speaker in view mode, and to be shown to all except for Anybody in listing mode. 
 * localizing the `ministry_submit_date` Field in in `view` mode to not be shown to any role.

Note we specify *all* the fields (those defined in `QuestionDescriptor` as well as those copied off from `ParliamentaryItemDescriptor`)--to change the order we simply... change the order.

The show and hide directives follow exactly the same logic as in bungeni descriptor.

As suggested in the requirements, a localization file with all localizable descriptors and their default settings should be automatically generated by bungeni.

Should it ever become necessary, it is forseeable, using this syntax, that the `<show>` and `<hide>` directives here may gain further modifier attributes, such as one to state additional conditions e.g. an object's workflow states.
