#summary GSoC 2011 Ideas

*This page is a work in progess*

= GSoC 2011 Project Ideas =

<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

== XML Node level diff and merge  ==

A critical requirement when dealing with legislative documents is managing different versions and consolidating changes into a master document. The project has developed  a legislative XML document standard called [http://www.akomantoso.org Akoma Ntoso] (also see [http://akomantoso.googlecode.com] ).

A typical use case is a legislative bill --  this is drafted by a member of parliament and then changes are submitted on this document by different members. These submitted changes are triaged and discussed and go  through a voting process before selected changes are approved as amendments.
These approved amendments are "merged" (consolidated) back into the original bill document.

In Bungeni the bill document will be an XML document (either ODF or Akoma Ntoso). The changes are submitted on copies of this document -- and finally, approved amendments from different users are merged into the master.

A XML aware diff-merge module is required for Bungeni.
One of the projects identified as a feasible candidate is the JNDiff project [http://jndiff.sourceforge.net/]. This needs to be taken from a proof of concept application to something practically usable with Akoma Ntoso documents.

Also see :
[http://www.scribd.com/doc/14482474/XML-diff-survey XML diff survey]


= Online petitioning system =

The Bungeni legislative information system provides a workflow driven environment for managing typical parliamentary processes like : questions,motions and bills involving  different kinds of actors like : the member of parliament, the clerk and the speaker.

An "online petitioning system" is intended to make the general public also an involved actor in the processes of the system.

Using this public facing module - the general public can propose and submit petitions on issues of public / private importance. The petition submission to parliament will involve a workflow where the petition will be channeled for approval via a specific committee or office in the parliament - to be directed appropriately to other bodies (e.g. a member or a committee ) within the parliament to address the content of the petition.


= Social Media Integration = 

TO DO