#summary How to setup configure the debaterecord Office in Bungeni.
#labels debaterecord,Featured

= How to setup and configure debate records =
== Creating Users ==
If you are starting with a fresh installation of Bungeni, you will need to first define users within the system. 


To start with you will need to create different types of users. You can do this via Site-Setup.->Users and Groups Administration. For the purposes of the test, create two users of type : “Members of Parliament”.


Create users for the : Chief Editor, Deputy Chief Editor, Reporter, Editor, Deputy Chair Person and Chair Person.

== Setting up the DebateRecordOffice (DRO) team ==
''Note: if [http://code.google.com/p/bungeni-portal/issues/detail?id=130 Issue 130] is still open, you will need to do the following to work around the problem described in [http://code.google.com/p/bungeni-portal/issues/detail?id=130 Issue 130]. If the Issue has been resolved, you can skip steps 1) and 3)''


1) You need to update the globalPolicy setup for the teams first.

After installing bungeni go to portal_teams/manage_globalTeamPolicyForm (ZMI)

There, edit the "Allowed Roles" to include:

Chairperson

Deputychairperson

Secretary

Chiefeditor

Deputychiefeditor

Editors

Reporters, and click submit.


2) You will need to setup a team of type “debaterecordoffice”.

To do this go to Site-Setup->Add on Product Config ->Teamspace Teams.

In the “Teams” container, click “add item” -> “debaterecordoffice”.

Give the team a name, but dont add members just yet.


3) Now edit the local policy for the debatrecordOffice team by going to the url:

portal_teams/debaterecord-office/manage_localTeamPolicyForm (ZMI)

Now edit the "Default Roles" to at least one of :

Chairperson

Deputychairperson

Secretary

Chiefeditor

Deputychiefeditor

Editors

Reporters


4) Now add members to the debaterecordOffice team by visiting teams->debaterecordoffice->member management . After adding the members, you will need to “change state” for the newly added members from “inactive” to “active”.


5)


