#summary How to create a Bungeni Debian package
#sidebar TableOfContents


= Introduction = 

This page documents the steps to create a debian package for Bungeni.


= Step 1 - Building Bungeni = 

== Preparing the Environment == 

First we need to build Bungeni using a particular structure.

For the debian package distribution, Bungeni is always installed in the `/opt/bungeni` folder and run using a `bungeni` user.

So we need to create the environemnt for the build first. Check out the debian_package project from svn into a folder

{{{
svn co https://bungeni-portal.googlecode.com/svn/debian_package/ deb-pack
}}}

From the deb-pack folder run `prepare_userenv.sh` :
{{{
sudo ./prepare_userenv.sh
}}}

This script creates a `/opt/bungeni` folder and also creates a `bungeni` user with a default `bungeni` password which will be used to create the deployment and packaging installation :

{{{
#!/bin/bash
set -x verbose
# add bungeni user
useradd bungeni
# generate default password for bungeni user
echo bungeni:bungeni | sudo chpasswd
# create & set home directory for bungeni user
mkdir -p /opt/bungeni
chown -R bungeni:bungeni /opt/bungeni
usermod -d /opt/bungeni bungeni
}}}

Additionally we also set the home directory for the `bungeni` user to `/opt/bungeni`.

== Building Bungeni == 

First login as the `bungeni` user :

{{{
su bungeni
}}}

Check out the fabric scripts into a folder called `exec` :

{{{
svn co https://bungeni-portal.googlecode.com/svn/fabric/trunk/ exec
}}}

Edit the release.ini and setup.ini appropriately for the revision that you want to create the package for.

Finally build bungeni using the documented procedures (see Install_Bungeni_Fabric)

= Step 2 - Building the Debian Package =

When you have built and tested the bungeni installation, you are ready to package in a debian distribution file.

First, stop the Bungeni and Postgres service and stop the supervisor monitor via the fabric command :

{{{
./fab -u bungeni stop_monitor
}}}

Now exit from the `bungeni` user login to return back to your default login :

{{{
exit
}}}

We will now create a tar achive of the full bungeni installation :

{{{
cd /
tar cvzf ~/deb-pack/bungeni-r1234.tar.gz ./opt/bungeni
}}}

Which will create a archive containing bungeni in the deb-pack folder.

We will use the `prepare_debpackfolder.sh` script to build the debian package.

Switch to the deb-pack folder :

{{{
cd ~/deb-pack
}}}

The script uses the following syntax :
{{{
./prepare_debpackfolder.sh 
Usage: prepare_debpackfolder.sh <release name> <pre-built-bungeni.tar.gz>
}}}

`release name` the name of the release; The `pre-built-bungeni.tar.gz` is the path to the bungeni tar archive we created earlier.

We usually follow the convention of the naming the relase with the svn revision number or the date. 

e.g. :

{{{
./prepare_debpackfolder.sh svn9846 ./bungeni-r1234.tar.gz
}}}

The script will start building the debian package in a folder called :

{{{
bungeni_1.0+svn9846
}}}

When the script finishes, the built package will be available as :

{{{
./bungeni_1.0+svn9846/bungeni_1.0+svn9846.deb
}}}


