#summary How to install Bungeni using a Debian package
#sidebar TableOfContents

= Introduction = 

This page documents how to install Bungeni using a debian package.
The advantage of installing Bungeni as a debian package is the ease-of-use. Unlike building Bungeni from source (which can take more than hour), installing with the debian package takes only a few minutes.

= Bungeni Debian Package =

Bungeni is available for installation as a debian package for Ubuntu 12.04 (32 bit and 64 bit) on the following link:

[http://dist.bungeni.org/cache/debian/ http://dist.bungeni.org/cache/debian/]

Depending on your operating system please download the appropriate debian package.


= How to Install  = 

Once you have downloaded the package, right click on it in Nautilus and click "Open With" -> "GDebi Package manager".

The system will prompt you to enter your password, once you have entered that the installation will commence by installing the dependencies and then complete.

= Starting Bungeni = 

Once the installation is complete, you can start and stop Bungeni from the terminal window :

To start:
{{{
sudo service bungeni_services start
}}}

You can now launch the web browser and browse to `http://localhost:8888` - enter user name and password : admin / admin and then you can start access the different Bungeni services. The core Bungeni package only installs `bungeni` and `postgres`.

Once the `bungeni` and `postgres` service are started, browse to `http://localhost:8081` to access Bungeni.


To stop:
{{{
sudo service bungeni_services stop
}}}


= To Uninstall = 

You can uninstall using the package manager, by removing the `bungeni` package.

Or alternatively from the command line type :

{{{
sudo apt-get remove bungeni
}}}

