#summary Information related to debian package based installations

= Introduction =

Bungeni can also be installed using a set of Debian packages.
When installed via the debian package method - the installation is much faster as the debian packages include pre-built binaries, so there is no build process required using the typical installation method.

= Starting services = 

When the debian packages have been installed, the bungeni services can be started using the ubuntu service manager :

{{{
sudo service bungeni_services start
}}}

Which will start supervisor on port 8888 , and the user can browse to http://localhost:8888 to start / stop the bungeni services (default user / pass : admin / admin) .

= Folder Structure = 

The folder structure for deployment is :

{{{
/opt/bungeni
├── bungeni_apps
├── exec
}}}


= Service Execution and Permissions = 

All the bungeni services : postgres, bungeni, plone, portal etc are run using the "bungeni" user. The default password for the bungeni user is "bungeni".

The "bungeni" user is also the owner of the /opt/bungeni and its sub-folders.

*bungeni_apps* - all the software components are installed within this folder, the structure is exactly the same as a built from source Bungeni

*exec* - this folders contains the fabric scripts. You can access them by ssh-ing to localhost using the `bungeni` user.

{{{
ssh bungeni@localhost
cd exec
}}}

If you want to install packages using the "bungeni" user, you will need to make the "bungeni" user as the sudo user :

{{{
sudo visudo
}}}

and then add the line in the visudo screen :

{{{
bungeni ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL
}}

WARNING : Making "bungeni" a sudo user is not recommended for live deployments ! For live deployments the `bungeni` user needs to be disabled to prevent security intrusions. 
