#summary How to install a development instance of Bungeni
#labels Featured

==Pre-requisites==

  * Build environment (on ubunutu do a `sudo apt-get install build-essentials` )
  * Python 2.5 (or 2.4) built from source. (on ubuntu you might need to install development libaries/headers for imaging and bz2 libraries)
  * PostGreSQL build from source requires development libraries/headers for bison, flex and readline. (on ubuntu installed via apt-get)

==Setup==

Note: 
the python setuptools package (a python egg) is used by buildout, if you have an older version of setuptools, you might need to update it manually first (from http://cheeseshop.python.org/pypi/setuptools/) in the python used for zope. 
Update instructions at: http://peak.telecommunity.com/DevCenter/EasyInstall#installation-instructions

If you dont have setuptools installed, buildout downloads and installs it automatically.

In order to install it, use buildout. These steps should be all you need to setup a Zope instance with all the required products and libraries:

{{{
$ svn co http://bungeni-portal.googlecode.com/svn/bungeni.buildout/trunk/
bungeni
$ cd bungeni
$ python bootstrap.py # not the system python! The one you use with Zope, i.e. 2.4.x. 
$ ./bin/buildout  # wait a while..
$ ./bin/instance start
}}}

The buildout includes !DeadlockDebugger, so if you start Zope in debug mode, it will stop at a debugger prompt if an exception is raised. 

Next you have to add a Plone instance and configure it. 
  * Add a plone site,
  * browse to `portal_setup` in the new instance. 
  * Go to the _Properties_ tab, select the `membrane` profile; go to the _Import_ tag, select _Import all steps_; (note: in Plone3 installations, the selection of the profile and the actual import is done straight from the _Import_ tab as there is no _Properties_ tab)
  * go back to the _Properties_ tab, select the `remember` profile; go to the _Import_ tag, select _Import all steps_ again. 
  * Go to the Plone view of the instance, go to the setup area, and install the Bungeni product. This will automatically install the dependencies. 
  * If you would like demo content to play with, install the BungeniDefaultContent product. (It raises an exception just as it's done. This is a quick'n'dirty way of enabling to you rerun it to re-add deleted content.)

Also see ConfiguringBungeni.
 